# cisco-python-essentials-1
This repository contains my progress for the Cisco python essentials course on their website. </br>
</br>
LearningLog[0] - In this learning log series, i will be completing the Python Essentials course by Cisco networking academy. I'll to do this in one sitting. Trying to get it done by the end of that particular day. 
The main goal of this entire series is to be able to or be knowledgable enough about Python to that extent that i am able to appear for the PCEP test.</br>
</br>
LearningLog[1] - <br/>
--- How does a computer program work?
---> First and foremost, what is a program, A program is something that makes a computer work, it helps the program achieve something by writing a certain set of instructions in a programming language like Java, C, C#, Python etc. Computer programmers are typically written by programmers who use speclialized software tools to write and debug code. Once the program is complete it is converted to something called as the machine language. A machine language consists of only 1s and 0s. There are two types of languages, Low level languages and High level languages. Low level languages like Assembly. Low level languages directly deal with the inner working of the CPU, whereas programming languages like Java, C, C# they are called as High level languages because they do not deal directly with the inner working of the CPU. A program is a set of instructions to perform a specific task.</br>
--- Difference between a natural language and a programming language? </br>
---> A language is something that is used to for communication, for example English is a natural language, it is used as a means of communiciation with someone who understands that language too. Similarly computers also have their own language called the Machine Langauge, this language is used by the computers to interact amongst themselves. Machine language consists of 0s and 1s. Langauges like English, Hindi, Spanish, these languages are constantly evolving with new words, language like these are called as Natural Language. A complete set of commands or instructions is known as or called as an Instruction List.</br>
--- Machine language vs High Level Languages
---> A Machine language is the language used by the computers to communicate between them, it is the mother tongue of computers. Humans/Programmers need a language that enables them to communicate with the computer that is far more complex than something like a machine language, and something is yet far simpler than something like a Natual Language. These languages are called as High Level Languages.</br>
--- Difference between a compiler and an interpreter? </br>
---> Compilation is the process of translating the source code into machine code as a whole. The process compilation every time generates machine code. Whereas Interpretation is also the process of translating the source code into machine code, which is never done during interpretation. Compiler is the program that takes care of the process of compilation, it is called as a translator. Interpretor is the program that successfully runs the interpretation of the program. </br>
</br>
LearningLog[2] - Python programming language has many versions, and subversions. The most widely used versions of Python are Python2 and Python3. Python2 is an older version of the original python, and python3 is the most modern version of Python since it has all the dependencies of python2 either removed or made better. Python2 and Python3 aren't quite compatible with each other, python2 code can't be run on a Python3 compiler. To be able to run Python2 code on a Python3 interpreter, a lot of code has to be rewritten in Python3, not all of it, much some important parts of it, but you do have to revise all parts of code to find all the possible impossibilities. One of the reasons for the increasing popularity of the Python programming languages, is it's ease to learn and it's wonderful ability to build stuff using it and it's numerous libraries and frameworks helping to build better and better products around itself. Python is easy to download, and implement. </br>
LearningLog[3] - Completed the Module 1 of the Cisco Python Essentials 1. Now moving forward with the module 2, In this module i will be learning all the basic parts of a programming language, in this case, Python, i will be learning Python's data types, the operators in Python, arithmetic, logical etc and basic input output operations. </br>
LearningLog[4] - Learnt about Python's and how to use the functions in Python. A function in Python can be of any of the types, it can be a function that comes inbuilt with Python, it can be module specific, which could either come with Python or it could need additional installation for it to function accordingly, and third is user defined function, these kind of functions can be written by the user and used by the user in his/her code. A function needs these certain steps to be followed for implementing it, first is the correct name of the function, second is the parantheses after invocation of the function, third is the parameters in the function. </br>
LearningLog[5] - Learnt about data types in Python, like integers and floating point values. These data types are used to represent values like 5 or 5.9. Values with a 0 at the or the beginning need not be written for a floating point value. for example: .9 or 9., The other data type is String, String is the data type used in Python to store any values that are in text or which you want to store as a piece of text, For example: "hello world!". To let quotes be a part of the given string, do this, "hello world my name is\"albert\"". Now talking about Boolean values, there are two Boolean values, 0 or 1, True or False. In Boolean context True > False, because True stands for 1 or a positive value, which is 1, whereas False stands for the value 0, And since 1 is greater than 0, ultimately True is greater than False and vice versa. </br>


